prepare yourself for 13 of the most
embarrassing Tech fails of all time from
the keyboard with 113 OLED displays
inside of it to PlayStation's most
expensive mistake ever in history to
literal Global apocalypse starting with
McDonald's who in one of the weirdest
collabs of all time went into
partnership with IBM in 2021 to run a
trial of an AI assisted voice ordering
system at about 100 of their
drive-throughs guess what happened when
Tik Tok got their hands on it giving
orders to the wrong cars multiplying
items and I'm not talking someone
walking away with a single extra chicken
nugget people were leaving with hundreds
of dollars worth of nuggets and I think
the most embarrassing and yet at the
same time also the most we probably
should have seen this coming era giving
people ridiculous combinations of
products that any human would realize
make no sense at all like ice cream with
ketchup and butter or I really wish I
was joking ice cream with bacon on top
but hey at least that means the
McDonald's ice cream machine was
actually working for once all while
having the audacity to correct the
pronunciation of its customers and that
says it's caramel like huh so yeah
McDonald's basically had to end the
trial ASAP but we got some pretty good
laughs out of it a pretty harmless 1 out
of 10 fail the same can't be said for
number 12 though because in 2005 an
unknown Russian design company called
Art lebedev released a series of concept
images for a revolutionary new type of
keyboard a keyboard called the Optimus
Maximus which yeah that's a pretty sick
name where each individual key has its
own tiny display and that's kind of
amazing because it means every single
key can be whatever you want it to be so
let's say I get a little bored of the
normal quiry keyboard layout bam and
it's kind of mind frying just the power
that this gives you every single key can
be a letter a number a direct shortcut
to a Photoshop tool or your ultimate
moving League it's kind of like the
MacBook touch bar but useful you could
change your whole keyboard's language
with one press and there's even a
programmable side panel which could
allow you to fast swap between
applications now you might be thinking
in 2005 surely that kind of miniaturized
LCD display technology just wasn't there
at the time and you would be right this
was meant to be a concept but people
just got so excited by it that leev
decided this is our chance to do
something big we actually have to make
this thing they quickly realized that
LCD displays at the time were too dim
for what they wanted to do so they
decided to go with OLED Tech that wasn't
really a big thing yet in 2005
especially in such a tiny form which
means that as well as having to make
monster of a keyboard they also ended up
having to create their own proprietary
miniature OLED display technology just
so they could fit one of them under each
one of these transparent Keys which they
did by working with a Taiwanese supplier
called ID display and somehow after all
of that they actually managed to ship a
working product in 2008 sadly they got
too caught up in the hype themselves
this company became so obsessed with
achieving this goal of 113 OLED displays
that they forgot to actually make the
typing experience good these Keys have
such high resistance that you're just
tired after like a minute of using it oh
yeah and the thing was priced at $1,500
when it launched so only a very small
fraction of the people who first
expressed interest actually followed
through and bought the thing I'm only
going to give this a 2 out of 10 fail
though because there was a silver lining
remember I display well they put so much
time and effort into helping to create
this mini under keyboard OLED Tech that
they decided to run with it anyway and
they were eventually purchased by Elgato
which is what led to the Elgato stream
deck which even today is one of the must
have gadgets for any streamer but not
every story has a happy ending some of
them have a nappy ending this is Paul
and Rachel Baron who after being
completely unable to find a washable
swim nappy for their son that was
actually good and actually fit decided
to make their own they started a company
called bow and Bell Littles selling them
on Amazon and very quickly hit $1
million in sales these guys were killing
it they were appearing on shows they
were being profiled by Forbes but 4
years ago possibly the absolute worst
thing that could have happened happened
Amazon you know the nearly $2 trillion
technology company sent one customer a
used diaper and you bet that customer
left a review the diaper arrived used
and was covered in poop stains nothing
could have been more disgusting these
were not small stains either I was
extremely grossed out now this sticky
situation was nothing to do with the
Barons this happened because the person
at Amazon responsible for checking
returned products before sending them
out to new customers did a well a pant
job but the worst part of this is after
the Barons saw this review and they
scurried to tell Amazon that it wasn't
their fault that it could very heavily
damage their business and to take it
down Amazon refused and the Barons were
right this one review did completely
tank their business four years later
they're now $600,000 in debt including a
loan that has their house up as
collateral it's only after Bloomberg
published an article about the holder
barkle that Amazon finally agreed to
take the review down but the damage was
already done so four out of 10 fail made
worse by the fact that it wasn't even
these guys fault so if you ever find
yourself in the market for a washable
swim nappy now you know where to go just
maybe don't return it after you've used
it okay we've seen all sorts of laptops
over the years Super high-end gaming
laptops super affordable $400 laptops
but what on Earth does a $100 laptop
look like well in 2005 the founder of
the MIT media lab Nicholas Negron formed
one laptop per child a nonprofit whose
goal was to transform education in the
developing World by creating and
distributing as many devices as possible
to children in schools and the device
that was going to change children's
lives the XO a quirky little green
plastic laptop designed to be produced
as cheaply as possible while still
giving disadvantaged kids access to a
computer and this thing had a lot of
thoughtful features packed into it for
its tiny cost especially considering
this was 2005 a hand crank that would
allow children to power their device
even if they didn't have access to an
electrical outlet which means that the
device ran on a tiny fra of the power of
probably whatever you're watching this
on and that was crucial to allow kids to
use it outside of school the screen
could flip around to turn it into an
eReader the thing was made of shock
absorbing plastic and rubber a feature
that Negron clearly very much enjoyed
showing off a rubberized spillproof
keyboard as well as all the ports being
covered by the Wi-Fi antenni when closed
all with a logo in various colors so
that kids could tell their laptops apart
and the absolute core of the whole thing
was that the device ran on a Linux based
operating system giving kids total
access to the computer the organization
actually managed to gather so much steam
that they were even offered free Mac OS
licenses by Steve Jobs himself which
that never happens but Negron turned
them down just to keep the system as
open as possible all this for only $100
and they didn't even want to stop there
we really believe that we can make
literally hundreds of millions of these
machines available to children around
the world Negron promised and it's not
just $100 it's going to go lower if
you're thinking this is too good to be
true good instincts and people started
to pick up on this when the crank broke
off at the live demo not a great start
and by the time the laptop actually came
out a lot of these promises had just
mysteriously vanished there was no crank
although I guess you can kind of see why
it wasn't as durable as promised the SSD
only had 1 gigabyte of storage the
screen was terrible and the worst part
of it was this whole project was geared
around this being the $100 laptop but
even with all of these quality Cuts they
only managed to get the launch price
down to $130 which then went up to 180
in the next revision so by the end of
this all the critics were convinced that
the money that had been put into this
project would have been far better spent
on things that people in developing
nations actually want to need like you
know better schools and clean drinking
water 4 out of 10 fail now do you
remember this little guy this alongside
the Humane AI pin were literally
supposed to be the next step in the
evolution of personal Tech after the
smartphone thanks to something called
the large action model an AI system that
canot just talk to you but also perform
actions based on what you say like for
example communicate completely on your
behalf with flights and hotels to book
your entire holiday from just you saying
a couple of words which excited enough
people to make $1 million in the first 5
days alone but spoiler alert no one
would ever trust it to do that because
the rabbit R1 sucks the battery sucks it
requires its own SIM card if you want to
use it on the go and this thing suffered
from some major security vulner
abilities from launch that rabbit
basically ignored but the most
fundamental it wasn't needed everything
this thing does can already be done
completely on your smartphone as well as
a whole load of things that this can't
which led a lot of people to ask the
question sure the teenage engineering
design device housing does look really
cool but shouldn't this just be an app
Well turns out it actually is Android
authorities Michel Ramen managed to
download rabbit's Launcher APK onto a
Google pixel 6A and got it to run the
entire R1 experience which really does
make this device the final boss of this
meeting could have been an email and in
a similar vein of companies biting off
more than they could chew my God you
know huet Packard or HP if so in all
likelihood it's because you've used one
of their PCS in your school computer
room or the library because they're
affordable and they do the job they're
not exactly the company you think of as
the Front Runners of consumer technology
however in 2011 one year after the
release of the iPad HP decided it was
their time to shine they wanted to take
on Apple with the HP Touchpad and HP
weren't stupid enough to just try and
Bea at their own game they promised
something different because their tablet
used the web OS operating system built
on the same Tech as a lot of web
browsers the touchpad promised to be a
more open and customizable experience
than Apple's Walled Garden approach
while also maintaining some of the style
and flare that Apple's known for which I
think is fair to say was lacking in most
Android devices at the time and because
web OS was based on common web
technology it was supposed to be super
developer friendly too now this was a
very expensive move because HP had to
acquire Palm who made webos for close
your eyes $1.2 billion so I'm sure
everyone at the company was just praying
that this would pay off oh God there is
absolutely no competition between how
slick and intuitive the iPad interface
is versus this the touchpad was pretty
universally recognized as a much slower
much clunkier and significantly bulkier
iPad nobody wanted this thing and you
know what makes it particularly
embarrassing the HP was already worse
than the original iPad with it being so
buggy on top of everything else but to
finish it all off by the time this
touchpad had actually come out Apple had
just launched this the iPad 2 which
absolutely decimated the thing this
product was performing so poorly both in
terms of sales and customer experience
even after slashing the price by $100
that HP literally took it off the market
after only 48 days they even had to
refund retailers for the stock they
purchased practically soiling everyone's
perception of the whole company while
burning through a hell of a lot of cash
while they were at it 5 out of 10 now
for number seven we actually have to go
all the way back to 1988 before the
worldwide web if you can even imagine
such a thing we're talking about a time
where only 60,000 computers across fewer
than 20 countries were connected to the
internet which was only used by
universities research centers and
government bodies but then in November
that year a malicious self-replicating
worm program was was released from a
computer MIT and 24 hours later 6,000 of
those 60,000 computers had been infected
and let's be very clear computers in
very important places including major
universities like Berkeley and Harvard
and even NASA the worm used a back door
in the email systems to get into these
computers which wasn't very hard
computers at this stage they were not
ready for internet trolls and while it
didn't destroy any files it rendered
those systems practically unusable
emails were delayed for days and
functions at vital institutions
including by the way the military were
blocked leading to all sorts of key
infrastructure having to either wipe
their systems or take them offline for
over a week in an attempt to rid
themselves of the worm we are talking up
to millions of dollars of damage with
obviously the potential for much bigger
consequences here's where it gets really
interesting seeing the damage it had
caused an anonymous programmer admitted
to two friends that he was the one who
created the Worm but that he hadn't
intended it to spiral this much out of
control he asked one of the friends to
send an anonymous message across the
internet which included both apologies
and instructions on how to remove the
Worm but ironically few people actually
saw this because of the extent of the
network damage the other friend went to
the New York Times to try and do some
damage control telling them that the
worm was meant to be a harmless
experiment but accidentally revealed the
programmer's identity by well it wasn't
very smart using his initials which were
easily searchable at his university so
the New York Times found and outed the
culprit 23-year-old Robert tapen Morris
and then the FBI got involved they
quickly launched an investigation and
found plenty of incriminating evidence
which was used to prosecute him in 1989
and the reason this was so momentous is
that Morris was the first person to ever
be indicted under us congress's new 1986
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act Silver
Lining though this was the wakeup call
for Global cyber security only a few
days after this attack the US Department
of Defense set up America's first
computer Emergency Response Team in
Pittsburgh and now that they've woken up
here is how bit Defenders new scam
co-pilot our sponsor can help you to
avoid the same embarrassment so this
right here is a scam website they steal
your data they take your money and you
don't get the products you've paid for
but equally how on Earth would you know
this is how so my phone has the Bit
Defender scam Co pilot baked into it
which means that when I try and load up
that same page it will stop me dangerous
page blocked for your protection and
it's not just for your browser this
thing protects everything like for
example bid Defender now pre-checks
every single email and text as they come
in for scam and fishing attempts before
I even need to think about clicking them
and there is a lot more including a live
chat that lets you check just about
anything else that might look a little
Dodge that you're concerned about
interacting with link below to get
yourself the Bit Defender scam co-pilot
now at least the Morris worm issues were
resolved in the end though the Tesla
cyber truck on the other hand has just
been one continuous Rocky Road of
problems ever since its very Inception
where the bulletproof windows smashed
during a demo to show how bulletproof
they were but who would have thought
that that wouldn't even be its biggest
issue cuz cuz now the thing's actually
out this thing has been recalled five
times just this year January for a
warning light font size that was too
small not something I ever considered
before but absolutely a real danger but
thankfully they managed to fix this one
remotely with an update April for a
dodgy accelerator pedal which could
dislodge from its pad if pushed too hard
getting stuck on the throttle which if
you think about it is as bad as an issue
can get on a car in June Tesla had to
issue two recalls on the same day
because of faulty windshield wipers I
mean who would have guess that the
cybertruck's bizarre single 4T long
wiper might not work perfectly it was
failing due to excessive electrical
current requiring the entire motor to be
replaced and then one for the SAA pque
the long strip of plastic lining on top
of the sides of the bed which was poorly
installed on some vehicles and has
fallen off in at least two cases
creating a road hazard that very much
has the potential to be deadly and then
finally in October due to a software
issue that delays or prevents the rear
view camera from showing you its feed
the result over 27,000 cyber trucks have
been recalled that's basically every
cyber truck ever made and as of July the
8th Tesla has also been offering free
motor Replacements they said it's not
dangerous to drive with the old one and
they haven't officially called this a
recall but given that so far the Cyber
truck has given people all the
confidence of a wet paper bag with
wheels on it I don't know how many
people are going to believe that this
smells like a six out of 10 fail to me
and now we're in the top five
now it just goes from bad to worse have
you heard of Concord I'm going to guess
you haven't and that's part of the
problem see Concord is a video game that
should have gone Gang Busters it was a
hero shooter one of the most popular
genres in gaming history it was
developed by ex bung staff you know the
people who worked on the very successful
Destiny 2 and it was a PlayStation
Studios game meaning that it's published
by PlayStation themselves and
refreshingly it was going to be a
onetime $40 purchase with no battle pass
or microtransactions so what what could
go wrong well as soon as the first
trailer dropped people immediately lost
interest and that includes me I was
watching the PlayStation event live when
they announced this like what did I just
see sure we love a good hero shooter but
ever since OverWatch exploded onto the
scene in 2016 the entire industry has
just been pumping out clones of that
game that basically do nothing new so
we're at a stage now in 2024 where
people are very fatigued of the genre
but that's far from the full deal
because the character designs were
boring and also particularly
aesthetically unappealing which sounds
silly but a genre like this actually
needs players to want to look like the
heroes they're playing as especially
since this entire genre revolves around
unlockable skins that you want to be
desirable to keep players playing the
70s sci-fi aesthetic just wasn't
resonating with kids who were born 30
years later let alone the fact that it
just made the entire world look like a
knockoff Guardians of the Galaxy without
the charm and arguably the biggest
problem Sony really failed to market the
game at all like this first TR trailer
was 3 months before the release of the
game which is probably why you've never
heard of it even so I don't think anyone
expected just how badly this game would
perform Concord launched in August 2024
and want to guess how many concurrent
players that it had at its absolute Peak
on Steam to give you an idea Counter
Strike 2 has nearly 2 million players
Concord
697 and you know what makes it many
times worse concord's been in
development for 8 years and you might be
thinking well surely that means the game
is going to be good and according to
reviews it actually was at least fun to
play but what happened 8 years ago
OverWatch this thing is so clearly yet
another copycat trying to cash in on the
genre except unlike games like paladins
or valerant which have their own twists
this game took so long to make that it's
both completely missed the hero shooter
hype window while being based on the Gen
one product that in itself is now
outdated I mean OverWatch 2 is already
out now and even that is struggling but
the single most embarrassing part of
this misadventure is that Sony saw
concord's poultry player numbers and
decided that instead of giving this game
a chance trying something new with the
marketing like I don't know just off the
top of my head telling people the game
existed that they would shut the servers
down Forever After 2 weeks of them being
live they invested rumored $400 million
into developing this thing which would
make Concord easily PlayStation's most
expensive game ever even the last was
part two only cost them 220 m although
there are other rumors saying that this
was closer to 150 million but either way
surely it was worth just risking a
little bit extra just in case they could
scrape some of that back easy 6 out of
10 disaster here that didn't sound good
and now you can just get ready to lose
all trust entirely in the ability of big
companies to actually look after you
starting with the snowflake hack so
snowflake is a high security cloud
storage provider with over 9,800
corporate customers including giants
like s tand Ticket Master and AT&T so
all of these massive companies will
store their customers private data using
Snowflake and all three of those
companies were affected when a hacking
group compromised snowflake in April the
hacker group who call themselves the
shiny Hunters which is another name for
people who spend hundreds of hours in
the Pokmon games searching four rare
shiny versions of them got straight into
the company snowflake accounts stole the
data in them with the intention to sell
that data off they used info stealing
malware programs to infect systems not
owned by snow themselves but likely
devices owned by snowflakes customers
companies like AT&T who would often save
their snowflake login credentials on
their own devices too and honestly this
hack sounds like it was a whole lot
easier to pull off than actually finding
a shiny Pokmon people need to remember
that storing your data in a locked down
server is fantastic but it doesn't mean
anything if the passwords to access that
server are literally sitting on your
desktop your security is only as good as
the weakest link in your chain and yet
these fruit cakes didn't even enable
two-factor authentication on their
machines and the impact has been that
the hack has got away with 1.3 terab of
personal info from 560 million Ticket
Master accounts it's including full
names addresses email addresses phone
numbers even payment card data which
they are selling for $500,000 on breach
forums a notorious cyber crime platform
that they own AT&T was hit even harder
with info from a quote nearly all of
their tens of millions of customers
stolen including which numbers those
customers interacted with counts of the
texts and calls and total call durations
for specific days or months the info
from which absolutely can and very
likely will be used to scam them with
tools on the internet also allowing you
to find the names connected to those
numbers and this is the funniest part
AT&T has reportedly paid the group shiny
Hunters
$370,000 to delete the data the only
proof of which comes from a video of the
shiny Hunters clicking the delete button
as if they aren't a criminal organiz
ation who hasn't already made a backup
I'm cringing just thinking about it
seven out of 10 fail so there's been a
bunch of cyber attacks in this series
but when your network is down because of
a hacker you can at least blame it on
them even if it exploited a
vulnerability that you should have fixed
however you know what's a lot more
embarrassing is when you brick your own
Tech let alone basically everyone else's
do you remember in July when it felt
like the entire world had a sudden it
crisis well that's because of crowd
strike a cyber security company who
makes products to protect windows and
get this over half of Fortune 500
companies rely on them this is not a
small potatoes company however on July
18th crowdstrike pushed a minor update
for one of their products called Falcon
which is a cloud-based AI powered
malware protection platform and it
reaped absolute Havoc sentencing some
8.5 million PCS around the world to the
infamous blue screen of death I'm
talking Banks TV stations Airlines were
down like Delta alone had to cancel
around 7,000 flights B basically
everyone who used Falcon hospitals were
canceling non-urgent surgeries and even
when stuff was running it was often
because people had resorted to doing
things by hand like this handwritten
boarding pass for a flight in India in
certain parts of the US even the
emergency 911 number was down and it's
all because Falcon's little update which
happened all the time to keep up with
new malware threats as the company
learns about them installed code onto
people's Windows computers containing a
logic error which caused the devices to
crash since they couldn't compute The
Impossible logic and because the issue
is happening on What's called the kernel
level I.E accessing and editing the
entire underlying system not just the
surface level stuff normal apps have
access to and because it was also a
bootstrap driver meaning it was required
for the system to boot up at all it was
like the perfect cocktail to lock those
PCS into an endless recovery Loop
fortunately the fix turned out to be
pretty simple just boot it into safe
mode and delete the files associated
with the problem but because of how
embedded it had become in a lot of cases
it required an IT professional to have
physical access to the machine meaning
that recovery was slow for many
organizations with the disruptions
causing a total of not Millions not tens
of millions but 5.4 billion in direct
losses for
companies but this one is straight up
Bonkers so Marina one was the US's first
interplanetary space probe it was
designed to journey to Venus equipped
with various scientific instruments to
allow it to record data spoiler alert it
didn't get there and you're not going to
believe how embarrassing the reason is
the thing was supposed to fly past Venus
and use these sensors to collect data
about the planet keeping in contact with
mission control for about 15 weeks total
but after all of the work that was put
into designing and constructing the
craft which was composed of over 54,000
components disaster Struck it
successfully lifted off on July 22nd
1962 flying nearly 100 Mil upwards for 3
and 1/ half minutes until suddenly
randomly it veered off course so much so
that they had to issue the self-destruct
command to avoid a collision with ships
in the North Atlantic the reason it
happened though the hardware was
absolutely fine the culprit was an
unbelievably easy toiss software error a
standard R was used in one equation when
it should have been an R with an over
bar and the reason that's so important
is that the guidance computer on board
that's making sure the thing is on track
is constantly checking in with its
sensors and the bar on top of the r is
the symbol that makes sure it takes the
average of Those sensors instead of just
taking one reading at face value so
without the correct R the probe
basically start started to overcorrect
its course in response to outlining data
points that it should have been ignoring
the project cost them around $192
million into today's money all thrown
out the window because of a single typo
I mean what's the most damage of typo
has ever caused
you could actually be pretty bad now I
think about it 8 out of 10 fail the only
slight Saving Grace being that they'd
also already constructed Marina 2 an
identical probe and because the Fatal
problem was a completely avoidable human
error they fixed it in about 4 seconds
and Marina 2 was launched successfully
just a month later and was the reason
that we now know Venus rotates in the
opposite direction to Earth but nothing
beats the Y2 kbug who if you were born
after 2000 this one's probably going to
sound too insane to be true do you
remember when everyone thought the world
was going to end in 2012 because that
was the end of a 5,000 years cycle in
the ancient Mayan calendar well there
was something just like that for the
year 2000 only this one was grounded in
the much more real fear of a tech
apocalypse because it turns out that
when complex computer systems were
originally designed in the ' 60s
computer scientists figured that they'd
save what pitiful storage and Screen
space that they had by using a two-digit
number for the year we were very much in
the 1900s after all years beginning with
18 were old news and 20 felt like too
far away the problem is as the years
ticked up and we got ever closer to the
New Millennium people started to wonder
are computers actually going to
understand that 00 means 2,000 not, 1900
and you might think that the only real
consequence of that would be waking up
on New Year's morning thinking hey
that's funny the clock's just gone back
100 years there were real reasons to be
worried because as you've seen with the
marina small miscalculations with the
input of a computer can have major
consequences with the output and in this
case industries that relied on computer
track dates could be affected in huge
ways like Banks which track interest
daily could potentially suddenly
calculate interest atus 99 years and
places like power plants which track
routine safety checks of things like
radiation levels could pose a threat to
human life if these checks were missed
people even started panicking that
planes might start falling from the sky
and that people's pacemakers would just
stop that old Uncle Joe would just
collapse and die the second that you go
from one to happy New Year at your party
so governments raced to avert a
potential computer crisis rushing to
update anything and everything to a
four-digit date and I mean everything I
don't think anyone quite expected just
how much would be spent on this you know
how some companies in this fails List
have lost hundreds of Millions here an
estimated 200 to 600 billion was spent
to tackle the issue and that's in the
1990s and when you think about it that
is a catastrophic amount of money to
burn considering that it could have been
avoided by a few computer scientists
typing two more characters n out of 10
thankfully the steps taken did avert
widespread chaos but the few issues that
did still occur proved that the worry
was warranted for example on January 1st
2000 many computers did think they woke
up in 1900 forcing 15 nule reactors
across the world to shut down some
people who did in fact incur a 100-year
bank loan interests and hilariously One
customer at a New York video rental
store who was handed a bill of
$91,200
yes for having rented a movie for 100
years I'll catch you in the next fails
video right here